Abandon normal instruments
Accept advice
Accretion
A line has two sides
Allow an easement (an easement is the abandonment of a stricture)
Are there sections? Consider transitions
Ask people to work against their better judgement
Ask your body
Assemble some of the instruments in a group and treat the group
Balance the consistency principle with the inconsistency principle
Be dirty
Breathe more deeply
Bridges -build -burn
Cascades
Change instrument roles
Change nothing and continue with immaculate consistency
Children's voices -speaking -singing
Cluster analysis
Consider different fading systems
Consult other sources -promising -unpromising
Convert a melodic element into a rhythmic element
Courage!
Cut a vital connection
Decorate, decorate
Define an area as 'safe' and use it as an anchor
Destroy -nothing -the most important thing
Discard an axiom
Disconnect from desire
Discover the recipes you are using and abandon them
Distorting time
Do nothing for as long as possible
Don't be afraid of things because they're easy to do
Don't be frightened of cliches
Don't be frightened to display your talents
Don't break the silence
Don't stress one thing more than another
Do something boring
Do the washing up
Do the words need changing?
Do we need holes?
Emphasise differences
Emphasise repetitions
Emphasise the flaws
Faced with a choice, do both (given by Dieter Rot)
Feedback recordings into an acoustic situation
Fill every beat with something
Get your neck massaged
Ghost echoes
Give the game away
Give way to your worst impulse
Go slowly all the way round the outside
Honor thy error as a hidden intention
How would you have done it?
Humanise something free of error
Imagine the music as a moving chain or caterpillar
Imagine the music as a set of disconnected events
Infinitesimal gradations
Intentions -credibility of -nobility of -humility of
Into the impossible
Is it finished?
Is there something missing?
Is the tuning appropriate?
Just carry on
Left channel, right channel, centre channel
Listen in total darkness, or in a very large room, very quietly
Listen to the quiet voice
Look at a very small object, look at its centre
Look at the order in which you do things
Look closely at the most embarrassing details and amplify them
Lowest common denominator check -single beat -single note -single riff
Make a blank valuable by putting it in an exquisite frame
Make an exhaustive list of everything you might do and do the last thing on the list
Make a sudden, destructive unpredictable action; incorporate
Mechanicalise something idiosyncratic
Mute and continue
Only one element of each kind
(Organic) machinery
Overtly resist change
Put in earplugs
Remember .those quiet evenings
Remove ambiguities and convert to specifics
Remove specifics and convert to ambiguities
Repetition is a form of change
Reverse
Short circuit (example; a man eating peas with the idea that they will improve his virility shovels them straight into his lap)
Shut the door and listen from outside
Simple subtraction
Spectrum analysis
Take a break
Take away the elements in order of apparent non-importance
Tape your mouth (given by Ritva Saarikko)
The inconsistency principle
The tape is now the music
Think of the radio
Tidy up
Trust in the you of now
Turn it upside down
Twist the spine
Use an old idea
Use an unacceptable colour
Use fewer notes
Use filters
Use 'unqualified' people
Water
What are you really thinking about just now? Incorporate
What is the reality of the situation?
What mistakes did you make last time?
What would your closest friend do?
What wouldn't you do?
Work at a different speed
You are an engineer
You can only make one dot at a time
You don't have to be ashamed of using your own ideas
Always first steps
Always give yourself credit for having more than personality (given by Arto Lindsay)
A very small object -Its centre
Be extravagant
Disciplined self-indulgence
Don't stress *on* thing more than another (sic)
Feed the recording back out of the medium
Go outside. Shut the door.
Idiot glee (?)
Imagine the piece as a set of disconnected events
In total darkness, or in a very large room, very quietly
Is the tuning intonation correct?
It is quite possible (after all)
Lost in useless territory
Lowest common denominator
Not building a wall but making a brick
Question the heroic approach
Revaluation (a warm feeling)
Simply a matter of work
State the problem in words as simply as possible
The most important thing is the thing most easily forgotten
Towards the insignificant
What are the sections sections of? Imagine a caterpillar moving
What are you really thinking about just now?
Assemble some of the elements in a group and treat the group
Be less critical more often
Children -speaking -singing
From nothing to more than nothing
Go to an extreme, move back to a more comfortable place
Intentions -nobility of -humility of -credibility of
Is the intonation correct?
Once the search is in progress, something will be found
Only a part, not the whole
Retrace your steps
State the problem in words as clearly as possible
Would anybody want it?
Note: This file contains only the English texts found on the fourth edition Oblique Strategies deck, which is multilingual. Click here for more information on the fourth edition.
Abandon desire
Abandon normal instructions
Adding on
Always the first steps
Be less critical
Change ambiguities to specifics
Change nothing and continue consistently
Change specifics to ambiguities
Consider transitions
Destroy nothing; Destroy the most important thing
Discover your formulas and abandon them
Display your talent
Distort time
Don't avoid what is easy
Do something sudden, destructive and unpredictable
Do the last thing first
Emphasize differences
Emphasize the flaws
Faced with a choice, do both (from Dieter Rot)
Find a safe part and use it as an anchor
Go to an extreme, come part way back
How would someone else do it?
Is something missing?
Is the style right?
It is simply a matter or work
Magnify the most difficult details
Make it more sensual
Make what's perfect more human
Move towards the unimportant
Not building a wall; making a brick
Once the search has begun, something will be found
Openly resist change
Pae White's non-blank graphic metacard
Question the heroic
Remember quiet evenings
Remove a restriction
Simple Subtraction
Slow preparation, fast execution
State the problem as clearly as possible
Take away the important parts
The most easily forgotten thing is the most important
Think - inside the work -outside the work
Try faking it (from Stewart Brand)
Use cliches
Use something nearby as a model
Use your own ideas
Voice your suspicions
What context would look right?
What is the simplest solution?
What to increase? What to reduce? What to maintain?
What were you really thinking about just now?
When is it for?
Where is the edge?
Which parts can be grouped?
Would anyone want it?
Your mistake was a hidden intention